---
layout: post
title: "Developing my own vocab collection application"
date: 2018-11-01
---

In the Works

I am currently working out how to put together this application I've been wanting to do for ages. 

For the current code/state of the project, check out my repo <a href="https://github.com/a-n-rose/Vocab-Collector-and-Tester">here</a>.


## Possible layout of application:

### Collect Words

Write a word --> word gets saved into collection

When saving, one can tag the word with a new tag(s) or saved tag(s)
This is helpful if you want to educate yourself about a certain field/language/etc at different times.

### Test vocabulary

Testing words can be based on Random Selection, Tags/Topics, Old/New Words, or Previous Performance (if you had difficulty with a word before). 

Testing starts with more difficult tasks and offering options for access to clues/easier questions.

To generate the test questions sometimes the word gets searched in:
* Linguee --> example sentences 

Use NLTK to put word into correct form (e.g. plural, past tense, etc.) --> forms correct answer.

User is prompted to fill-in-the-blank --> score based on percent similar to the 'correct answer' (at certain percentage pass). 

* Other dictionary webpages --> a definition 

User is shown the definition and prompted to write the word that matches it. If the user needs more help, multiple choice is offered for partial points.

### Filter Collection

The words should also be able to be looked at based on topic/ test performance/ date / etc.


    

