---
layout: post
title: "Kita, heat, and code: Fledglings await"
date: 2018-07-31
---

I thought I was a desert person, someone who could handle heat. Due to my everpresent sulkiness since the Berlin daily temperatures began hovering around 35 degrees (95d Fahrenheit), I am facing an identity crisis. I thought I was tougher than this. Another item on the 'self-improvement list': Be less sensitive to heat. I grew up in the desert for heaven's sake. What was all my suffering through cracking and bleeding skin for? Perhaps the dryness distracted me from the heat...

Nonetheless, I hate repeating goals I thought I'd accomplished. 

To distract myself from my constant human failures, as well as the heat, let's bring out to the front a goal I most definitely have not failed at (yet... not even attempted, actually): to blog about my projects and my career in software, despite not having a computer science degree and also being a mother. And a woman. To up the frankness levels, I should say "my career in development." 

I'm a white American lady, who had divorced parents: a wealthy, well-meaning, clueless father, whom I saw appx 3 times a year, and a struggling, dedicated mother. For several years I offered them the perfunctory resentment that all kids do, I suppose. As a kid I did very well in school and became a mini-star at my local dance school. Anger began boiling up in me, particularly in high school, as I became increasingly aware of the awkward and childish atmosphere adults handled gender relations in the United States (I currently live in Germany, partly due to my experiences back home). Unfortunately, this choice of anger pushed me away from what I really enjoyed: math. I loved math and typing as a kid; I'm confident had I been in a healthier environment, and by this I mean a culture that doesn't doubt its girls of intellect and boys of empathy, I would have come into contact with programming and computer science at an earlier age. But, I didn't. So when it came to college, I wanted to have as few men around me as possible. My dream college was Mount Holyoke. I got in; the fees were too high. So I chose Goucher College, a was-all female college. Long story short, I let my anger get in the way of what tickles my brain. While Goucher is a good college, it is not known for its IT program and I did not come into contact with programming there. 

It took me moving to Germany a year after I graduated, then getting into a master's program set in Germany, Finland, and the Netherlands, called European Masters in Clinical Linguistics. It was during the long, cold, fairy-tale winter in Finland when that computer obsessed professor pushed the dredded code onto us poor linguists. I did not like him for a long time. Until I got the hang of code and saw the power behind it. Then he became one of my favorite professors of my entire education. Because of him, I finally got into touch with what not only makes sense to me, is a total blast and finally fuels my dreams of a career. 

That masters program was research-based. While I'm grateful to have completed it, something didn't fit right. That became evident in my decreasing performance: I started out with A's and ended up with a fat C on my thesis, the first C in my life. I knew getting a PhD position with that would not be an easy feat, and considering my visa to stay in Germany counted on that, I was destraught. Looking back, and part of me knew it then too, everything worked out. Thank God I didn't get a PhD position in a field that filled me with angst and dread. Thank God for that C. I met a man who ended up my husband, and eventually the father of my child, who also became my greatest cheerleader, especially in my pursuit of a career growing from my background in clinicical linguistics and branching into tech and math. 

When we decided to have our first child, I didn't have a job. Any job I could get with the qualifications I had, was not going to be a job I enjoyed. Instead I used the time to develop my own projects. My first projects included building a website for a family reunion and a name recommender app. These projects inspired me to continue onto others, namely an algorithm that can identify a language spoken (and someday language pathologies) and a game called 'Mimic Master'. I wandered into the world of digital signal processing and voice biometrics, just in time as my daughter entered Kita. (Kita is daycare in Germany, which is *not* the same as daycare in the States. Don't even get me started.) 

She is 14 months old, walking and shaking her head 'no' like a pro, and now entering her own social world. My heart warms witnessing every moment. I look back on these past 2 years, through my pregnancy and first year with a baby, and feel so happy for those developments in my life. I am so happy I found a partner willing to believe in me and support his partner not only in following her dreams but discovering those dreams. He has taken parental leave, at times full-time, but for 10 consecutive months part-time, just so I could work on my projects in our local library. I did not earn money for this. This means that we both could build onto our parenting skills and priceless experiences with our daughter as well as our individual careers, however we define them. Because I have had that time learning and coding, I feel that I can hit the road, perhaps not running but at least walking, and make my way into the mesmerizing world of wave analysis and just exploring the world via math and code.

We're 3 weeks into the Eingewohnung (intro to the daycare); soon I'll be able to let loose and code. It's my goal to document all that here in my blog, including the excitement and challenges that come with being a parent while building an alternative career path. That alternative path began in Berlin, Germany. I'm curious to see where it goes from here. 
